README.md, before:

# Dhop - it takes you places!

\[ [License](#license) | [Usage](#usage) | [Examples](#examples) | [Conveniences](#special-conveniences)
| [Installing](#installing) | [Problems?](#problems) \]

Dhop (command name: `dhop`) is a command-line utility written in Ruby that provides a number of ways to get around your
filesystem quickly:

* marking and recalling a single, unnamed location.
* pushing and popping locations from a stack.
* naming directory locations and then recalling them by name.

All of these states are persistent and can be used even after your terminal session has finished, your computer
rebooted, etc.

## License

This software is provided under the terms of the GNU General Public License, v3. For complete info, refer to LICENSE.txt
(provided with the source code), or go to <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

> **Note**: The license does not restrict your ability to use the software itself; it affects only your ability to
> modify and use the software's *code*, or to claim ownership of it.

## Usage

**dhop** \<*cmd_or_location_or_path*\> \[*command_args*\]

Where *cmd_or_location* represents either a named location (recorded with **set**) or one of the [known
commands](#dhop-commands). Any further arguments on the command-line are considered parameters for the given command.

### Commands

**set** \<*name*\> \[*path*\]
:    Sets a name for a given directory path. If no path is given, then the current directory is assumed.

**go** \<*name*\>
:    Goes to the location previously **set**, and represented by *name*.

**forget** \<*name*\>
:    Forgets (deletes) a named location that was previously **set**.

**mark** \[*path*\]
:    Marks the provided path so you can later **recall** it to return. If the location isn't provided, the current
    directory is assumed.

> **Note**: This also overwrites any previous marks.

**recall**
:    Goes to the directory that was last **mark**ed.

**push** \<*path*\>
:    Pushes the current working directory to the directory stack, then goes to the location referenced by *path*.

**pop** \[*option*\]
:    Pops the last pushed location from the stack, and then transports you to that location.  You can set the following option:

    * **all** - Pops all of the pushed locations from the stack, then transports you to the final location popped from
      the stack.

**help**
:    Prints help.

## Examples

### Example 1: Setting and returning to a named location

    $ dhop set docs ~/Documents

Then you can either use:

    $ dhop docs

or

    $ dhop go docs

to go to ~/Documents.

### Example 2: Marking and recalling a location

    $ dhop mark

marks the current directory (overwriting any previous `mark`)

    $ dhop recall

takes you back to the marked location.

### Example 3: Pushing and popping locations

    $ dhop push

pushes the current directory on the stack.

    $ dhop pop

pops the last pushed directory from the stack and transports you there.

## Special Conveniences

I've added these special conveniences because I use them.  ;)

### Using the `@` symbol

If you enter an `@` symbol at the beginning of a command, it assumes you mean `go`. So you can type:

    $ dhop @docs

This will take you to the named location 'docs'.

You can also use `@` with `push`:

    $ dhop push @docs

Which will take you to the location `docs`, but will first push the current directory onto the stack.

### Auto-interpretation of paths

If the command isn't recognized, but refers to an actual filesystem location, `dhop` will assume that you want to go
there, so typing:

    $ dhop ~

will take you to your home directory--well, on *nix, *BSD, and Mac OS X, at least.

> **Note**: If you use `dhop` on Windows, you may want to go to where your "home" is and type:
>
>     C:\Users\me> dhop set ~
>
> then, just as you would on Linux, you can use `dhop ~` to get home. Neat, eh?


## Installing

1. You must have Ruby on your system. I've tested this with Ruby 1.9+.

2. Get the sources. You can either use git:

        git clone https://github.com/Abstrys/dhop.git

    or download the .zip: <https://github.com/Abstrys/dhop/archive/master.zip>

3. Run either `install.sh` or `install.bat` depending on your platform.

4. Test it out by typing `dhop help`

## Problems?

You know that this software comes with *no warranty*, right? Refer to the [license](#license) if you have any concerns
about this.

Well, given that--there are avenues available to alert me of any problems with `dhop`:

* You can log an issue on GitHub: <https://github.com/Abstrys/dhop/issues>
* You can email me at: <eron@abstrys.com>

Commit message:

Added missing install step for Linux/Unix/BSD/Mac OS X...

README.md, after:

# Dhop - it takes you places!

\[ [License](#license) | [Usage](#usage) | [Examples](#examples) | [Conveniences](#special-conveniences)
| [Installing](#installing) | [Problems?](#problems) \]

Dhop (command name: `dhop`) is a command-line utility written in Ruby that provides a number of ways to get around your
filesystem quickly:

* marking and recalling a single, unnamed location.
* pushing and popping locations from a stack.
* naming directory locations and then recalling them by name.

All of these states are persistent and can be used even after your terminal session has finished, your computer
rebooted, etc.

## License

This software is provided under the terms of the GNU General Public License, v3. For complete info, refer to LICENSE.txt
(provided with the source code), or go to <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

> **Note**: The license does not restrict your ability to use the software itself; it affects only your ability to
> modify and use the software's *code*, or to claim ownership of it.

## Usage

**dhop** \<*cmd_or_location_or_path*\> \[*command_args*\]

Where *cmd_or_location* represents either a named location (recorded with **set**) or one of the [known
commands](#dhop-commands). Any further arguments on the command-line are considered parameters for the given command.

### Commands

**set** \<*name*\> \[*path*\]
:    Sets a name for a given directory path. If no path is given, then the current directory is assumed.

**go** \<*name*\>
:    Goes to the location previously **set**, and represented by *name*.

**forget** \<*name*\>
:    Forgets (deletes) a named location that was previously **set**.

**mark** \[*path*\]
:    Marks the provided path so you can later **recall** it to return. If the location isn't provided, the current
    directory is assumed.

> **Note**: This also overwrites any previous marks.

**recall**
:    Goes to the directory that was last **mark**ed.

**push** \<*path*\>
:    Pushes the current working directory to the directory stack, then goes to the location referenced by *path*.

**pop** \[*option*\]
:    Pops the last pushed location from the stack, and then transports you to that location.  You can set the following option:

    * **all** - Pops all of the pushed locations from the stack, then transports you to the final location popped from
      the stack.

**help**
:    Prints help.

## Examples

### Example 1: Setting and returning to a named location

    $ dhop set docs ~/Documents

Then you can either use:

    $ dhop docs

or

    $ dhop go docs

to go to ~/Documents.

### Example 2: Marking and recalling a location

    $ dhop mark

marks the current directory (overwriting any previous `mark`)

    $ dhop recall

takes you back to the marked location.

### Example 3: Pushing and popping locations

    $ dhop push

pushes the current directory on the stack.

    $ dhop pop

pops the last pushed directory from the stack and transports you there.

## Special Conveniences

I've added these special conveniences because I use them.  ;)

### Using the `@` symbol

If you enter an `@` symbol at the beginning of a command, it assumes you mean `go`. So you can type:

    $ dhop @docs

This will take you to the named location 'docs'.

You can also use `@` with `push`:

    $ dhop push @docs

Which will take you to the location `docs`, but will first push the current directory onto the stack.

### Auto-interpretation of paths

If the command isn't recognized, but refers to an actual filesystem location, `dhop` will assume that you want to go
there, so typing:

    $ dhop ~

will take you to your home directory--well, on *nix, *BSD, and Mac OS X, at least.

> **Note**: If you use `dhop` on Windows, you may want to go to where your "home" is and type:
>
>     C:\Users\me> dhop set ~
>
> then, just as you would on Linux, you can use `dhop ~` to get home. Neat, eh?


## Installing

1. You must have Ruby on your system. I've tested this with Ruby 1.9+.

2. Get the sources. You can either use git:

        git clone https://github.com/Abstrys/dhop.git

    or download the .zip: <https://github.com/Abstrys/dhop/archive/master.zip>

3. Run either `install.sh` or `install.bat` depending on your platform.

4. If you used `install.sh`, you'll also need to add a line to your profile (either `~/.bashrc`, `~/.bash_profile`, or
    `~/.profile` depending on your system), such as:

        alias dhop="source /Users/eronh/bin/dhop.sh"

    Invoking `dhop` with `source` is necessary to allow `dhop` to change your working directory in your shell session.

5. Once installed, test it out by typing `dhop help`.

## Problems?

You know that this software comes with *no warranty*, right? Refer to the [license](#license) if you have any concerns
about this.

Well, given that--there are avenues available to alert me of any problems with `dhop`:

* You can log an issue on GitHub: <https://github.com/Abstrys/dhop/issues>
* You can email me at: <eron@abstrys.com>
